# JGN Frequently Asked Questions #

'''Why do most of the examples use two MessageServers?'''
> In most games it is useful to utilize the functionality of the two standard communication protocols: UDP and TCP. UDP is great for sending messages that do not need guaranteed delivery such as synchronization information. However, for things that absolutely must arrive it is often practical to use TCP as it provides guaranteed order and guaranteed delivery of every message. JGN does provide the ability to do guaranteed delivery with UDP, but this is a software-driven feature rather than hardware-driven, so the performance will not be as good for that functionality. UDP is often preferred when reasonable for sending messages as lag, and recovery from lag is much less noticeable.

'''What is the difference between MessageServer/MessageClient and JGNClient/JGNServer?'''
> The core functionality of JGN rests within MessageServer and MessageClient. The MessageServer makes up a centralized point for incoming and outgoing communication of messages in JGN. The MessageClient is tied to a specific MessageServer and represents a specific remote connection that has been established to that MessageServer. In essence, it provides a mechanism for communicating with a specific remote client that is connected to that server. It is important to note that MessageServer is not solely used for "servers", but rather all remote connections, clients or servers, utilize MessageServer to maintain incoming and outgoing connections.

> JGNClient and JGNServer are extensions that actually utilize MessageServer and MessageClient to provide an explicit client/server scenario and offers the ability to utilize both a "fast" and "reliable" MessageServer. The functionality included helps to communicate between a client and a server, a server and a client, and client and a client where information must be routed through a server. For more details on this see the JavaDocs for the relevant classes.